The other thing that you can also do is
just have a layer when you take an API
request take.
Okay, this was the request but let me then
transform this thing immediately before
it gets to my view layer of how do I
want this actually to be structured?
And like one of the opinions
that it will offer.
That is, I think, pretty standard,
is this idea of normalizing your state.
Right, which means, regardless of
what the API that you get is, right.
Thinking about what
the structure should be.
And we won't go all the way through this
because it's more of an exercise of data
manipulation.
And you could write some unit tests,
you can make it work.
I do wanna introduce the concept though,
and talk about it and
also answer any questions about
because I think it is important.
This is what we had, right?
I showed it to you in
the browser a second ago.
Deeply nested data structures that
cause us to break our own performance
optimizations just to manage our own data.
And like one of the questions Alex brought
up in the very beginning was like.
Hey, if I don't get keys, should I put
unique keys on things on the way in?
And we're like, yeah,
yeah, you should do that.
And I would say, yes and
right, you should do that.
And there is more to this at this point,
right?
Like a more normalized data structure.
This is part of I have a file,
I don't know why I'm showing you this.
I literally have the files
open on my computer.
But one of the things I really like about
this is, let's actually pull it up.
[LAUGH] Turn off the slide,
that's my editor now.
I have a normalized version we could
play around with, it's an exercise,
which is for everything.
So for users,
I have an array of all the ideas.
Right, and this is just,
if you took the array of users and
mapped it to just pulling out the ID,
you'd end up with this.
And then taking all the individual
users and having an object, right?
So now if I wanna show a list of users,
instead of taking an array of users,
right, I just have all
their different IDs.
And I have this JavaScript object that I
can key in on any given key on that object
and get that value.
And what's really cool is, let's say that
list that is just getting in this case
their fake ID, so one through ten.
But imagine they're IDs or
something like that.
Let's say we edit an item name.
If the list is just saying, I know
about item one, two, three and four.
I'm just taking item ID.
Next time it renders,
even if it's a brand new item.
All the name has changed and all those
things like brand new item and memory.
It's like, I just know that I'm
supposed to be playing item nine.
In the same way keys work in React, right?
And so it's like then you have the actual
item that will just go into that object.
And grab item 9 directly and
doesn't care which other ones got removed.
You're separating the order and
sorting and
which ones are on the list from
the actual pulling of that data.
>> There's actually a library
that does this for Redux.
>> Yeah, there's one called normalizer.
It's like, you can tell.
It's usable and works it's currently
archived, it's not taking anything.
I was gonna jump to because it's
normalizer without an E in the end like
the internet 10 years ago.
He has a library that will kinda do this,
it's also relatively simple to do
yourself, right and
I think either one works.
But it would create a data structure
where you can just swap out one and
then you get the comments ideas and
you keep those separate.
So if they change everyone is just
kind of keying into that object and
has all these things.
And the lists don't care because
they're just looking at the ideas.
And you begin to separate this idea
out of how you store these things.
So you're like you've done
all this work to only
rerender if an object
is changed in memory.
And then confirming that you're not
actually doing it when it hasn't.
To then change every object in memory all
the time for any reason whatsoever, right?
And again, because those optimizations,
those memorizations weren't free.
You've either done nothing or
made the problem worse, right.
And that's why the thinking
about it looking at the tools.
Starting to investigate one you
might find things that surprise you.
You might understand that there's
a fundamental problem which is all
the technologies working as expected.
What you expect it is not or yeah what
is expected is not what you wanted.
And those are two fundamentally
different things.